My theory of an important dynamic within big companies  is explained quite well in [this YouTube video](https://youtu.be/iHzzSao6ypE?si=oS5MYbCehoKEMle6). It’s called “The Simple Solution to Traffic.” 

The problem of traffic is not about frequent accidents or “bad drivers.” It’s about **a lack of coordination amongst drivers on the road.** When a driver slows down too much, or is cut off by someone and forced to slow down, that forces the people behind them to slow down as well. Not only that, but every subsequent driver will typically slow down more than the previous one because of human reaction times and a desire to maintain following distance. This means the slowdown effect travels back like a wave, even forcing drivers to come to a full stop at times. This is referred to as a “phantom traffic jam” or a “traffic snake.”

I believe the same thing occurs with work dynamics in a big company as well. When you have a large, uncoordinated group of people working together on projects but independently performing parts of those projects, a slowdown of one person can lead to a standstill for others. For example, if a project lead delays in getting an approval from a client to move forward, that delays the project manager, who assigns work to be done, which delays those who are actually executing the work. If this same delay happens much further up the leadership hierarchy across many teams, a big work traffic snake begins.

This is a potential explainer for why people have roles at big companies that actually take only a fraction of the 40 hours of work a full-time role is supposed to demand . They are experiencing the  work traffic snake resulting from a huge network of people starting, slowing down, and stopping. 